---
title: Tailprod
---

Write a function that calculates the product of the tail of a list.  Use your
`tailMay` function and the `product` function defined in MCPrelude.  This
function should return `Nothing` when passed an empty list, `Just 1` when passed
a list of one element, and the product of the tail for larger lists.  Note that
`product` will return `1` when given an empty list.

    tailProd :: Num a => [a] -> Maybe a

Now write a similar but slightly different function:

    tailSum :: Num a => [a] -> Maybe a

<!--
TODO: transMaybe is supposed to be fmap. Why would this prompt make readers
think of fmap? Instead, we should use an alternative problem that uses an
existing Maybe and modifies it into another Maybe.
-->

These two functions have a lot in common.  See if you can abstract out the
commonality.  To do this, write another function called `transMaybe` that is
the generalized version of both of these.  Spend some time working on this
before you look at the next [hex
encoded](http://www.convertstring.com/EncodeDecode/HexDecode) hint:

    7472616E734D61796265203A3A202861202D3E206229202D3E204D617962652061202D3E204D617962652062

Write a function with that type signature and then go back and implement
`tailProd` and `tailSum` in terms of that function.

Now that you have that finished, use `transMaybe` again, with `maximumMay` and
`minimumMay`, to write two more functions `tailMax` and `tailMin`. These
functions will have different type signatures than `tailProd` and `tailSum`,
since `sum` and `product` return `Integer` while `maximumMay` and `minimumMay`
return `Maybe Integer`. See if you can figure out what they should be. If you
can't figure it out, here's a
[hex](http://www.convertstring.com/EncodeDecode/HexDecode) encoded hint.

    7461696C4D6178203A3A204F72642061203D3E205B615D202D3E204D6179626520284D61796265206129

That type signature is different from the ones above for `tailProd` and
`tailSum` and less convenient to use. To collapse the two levels you'll need
another helper function. See if you can figure out what the type signature of
this function should be and how to implement it. Call this function `combine`.
Here is its [hex](http://www.convertstring.com/EncodeDecode/HexDecode) encoded
type signature if you need help.

    636F6D62696E65203A3A204D6179626520284D61796265206129202D3E204D617962652061

[Previous Page](ex2-5.html) - [Next Page](set3.html)
